Section SF 1449 - CONTINUATION SHEET

STATEMENT OF WORK
1.	GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR AN IMMUNOASSAY TEST REAGENT FOR THE DETECTION OF OPIATES (HYDROCODONE, HYDROMORPHONE, CODEINE, MORPHINE) IN URINE

1.1.	Scope. The materials shall be for the initial (screen) immunoassay for the detection of hydrocodone, hydromorphone, codeine, and morphine (opiates) in urine. When using the vendor’s recommended calibrator at a concentration of 300 ng/mL, the testing reagent shall be used to detect in urine the select opiates (hydrocodone, hydromorphone, codeine, and morphine) when present individually or in combination at a urine concentration equal to or greater than 300 ng/mL. Since 75% of the morphine excreted in urine is in the form of morphine-3- glucuronide, the reagent offered shall demonstrate cross-reactivity to the presence of morphine-3-glucuronide; or, the reagent may be a two component glucuronide hydrolysis reagent. However, in a glucuronidase assay, the glucuronidase shall be a component of the two reagent assay. A vendor immunoassay reagent proposal that requires a separate manual or automated addition of the beta-glucuronidase to each testing sample prior to testing on the analyzers will not be considered acceptable in this solicitation. Likewise, a vendor’s proposal which requires a separate pretreatment of each testing specimen prior to testing on the analyzers will not be considered acceptable. The reagent shall be compatible with the Beckman Coulter AU5800 Series Clinical Chemistry Analyzers, in use at the Department of Defense (DoD) Forensic Toxicology Drug Testing Laboratories (FTDTLs), and shall be compatible without modification of the equipment. The immunoassay procedure is limited to a two reagent assay procedure. The reagent shall be compatible with the optimal throughput of the analyzer systems and shall not interfere with the optimum performance of the other immunoassay procedures performed on these instruments. The reagent shall not impose additional maintenance, servicing, or calibration requirements for the optimum performance of the contractor’s reagent on the analyzer.

1.2.	Sensitivity and Specificity. The reagent shall be used for the identification of hydrocodone, hydromorphone, codeine, and morphine in physiological urine specimens when present individually or in combination at concentrations equal to or greater than 300 ng/mL. The reagent shall minimize cross-reactivity with the drugs or drug metabolites listed below (excluding the compound(s) of interest). DoD laboratory certified solutions of the vendor’s recommended calibrator at a concentration of 300 ng/mL (initial screen) shall be used for calibration of the analyzer. The testing reagent shall be evaluated for its ability to detect specimens containing hydrocodone, hydromorphone, codeine, and morphine, individually or in combination, at concentrations equal to or greater than the DoD immunoassay screening cutoff concentration of 300 ng/mL. The reagent shall demonstrate calibration stability, as evaluated by frequency of control failures, and shall require calibration no more than one time during an 8 hour period. The reagent shall maintain reproducibility in quality control (QC) and quality assurance (QA) measurements. The vendor recommended calibrator and QC analyte shall be one of the select opiates (hydrocodone, hydromorphone, codeine, or morphine). The following drug cutoffs (in ng/mL) are currently used by DoD for the initial immunoassay screen and chromatographic/spectrometric confirmation tests, respectively.

The following drug cutoffs are currently used by DOD for the initial immunoassay screen and chromatographic/spectrometric confirmation tests, respectively:

Drug Class	Drugs/Metabolites (IA target in bold)	Initial Screen (ng/mL)	Confirmation
(ng/mL)
Marijuana	11-nor-delta-9-THC-carboxylic acid	50	15
Cocaine	Benzoylecgonine	150	100
Opioids	Morphine		4000
	Codeine
Hydrocodone	300	2000
100
	Hydromorphone		100
Heroin	6-Acetylmorphine	10	10
Opioids	Oxycodone & Oxymorphone	100	100
 

Amphetamines	d-Amphetamine & d-Methamphetamine	500	100
Designer Amphetamines	Methylenedioxymethamphetamine & Methylenedioxyamphetamine	500	500
Benzodiazepines	Nordiazepam, Oxazepam, Temazepam, Lorazepam, Alpha-hydroxyalprazolam	200	100
Synthetic
Cannabinoids	JWH-018, JWH-073, UR-144, MAM-2201, AB- CHIMINACA, AB-PINACA	10	1
Fentanyl	Fentanyl & Norfentanyl	1	1
Lysergic Acid Diethylamide	Lysergic Acid Diethylamide & 2-oxo-3-hydroxy-LSD	
0.5	
0.2

1.3.	Compliance with Food & Drug Administration (FDA) Requirements.

1.3.1	Immunoassay kits are considered medical devices and shall have clearance from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be marketed. The registration and listing process specified by the FDA shall be followed and the manufacturer shall adhere to good manufacturing processes (GMP) in the manufacture of the devices. Any mandatory recalls of the kits provided under the resulting contract and any other problems that require notification to the FDA shall be resolved as required by the FDA regulations current at the time. The contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of any recall or FDA notification within two working days ofthe event.

1.3.2. Except as provided herein, the reagents supplied throughout the term of this contract shall be identical to the reagents offered by the contractor and accepted by the Government at the time of the contract award. If, during the course of this contract, the manufacturer wishes to change or improve its kit, that product modification shall be proposed in writing to the Contracting Officer for approval prior to its incorporation into the kits to be delivered. The contractor's proposal shall include documentation that demonstrates that the manufacturer has complied with all applicable FDA regulations, including those concerning the filing of a new 510k notice if such action and subsequent FDA clearance are warranted by the nature of the modification.

1.4.	Packaging. The materials provided shall be in volumes and packaging that are convenient and applicable to the sample throughput at the military laboratories and shall not result in the loss or unnecessary disposal of more than 3% of the working volume of reagent. The contractor shall not be required to provide calibrators and control materials for the drug reagent. (The military laboratories shall separately obtain or provide calibrators and control materials to be used with the reagent.) The materials shall be provided with an instruction sheet that complies with all requirements of the FDA and includes data demonstrating specific performance characteristics, such as accuracy, precision, sensitivity, specificity, cross-reactivity, and safety precautions. The instruction sheet(s) shall include procedures and instrument parameters optimized for military drug testing laboratory operations as represented in these specifications and cutoffs as utilized by the DoD. The Government shall not develop procedures or optimize the performance of a kit for the contractor.

1.5.	Shelf Life. Minimum shelf life of any unopened component of the assay shall be at least 180 days from date of delivery to the drug testing laboratory. Once kit container seals are broken and the components are opened, the shelf-life shall be at least 14 days.

2.	TESTING and QUALITY CONTROL PROTOCOL.

2.1.	The following testing and quality control protocol shall be used for testing. The reagents supplied shall be adaptable to the calibration requirements and characteristics of the Beckman Coulter AU5800 Series Clinical Chemistry Analyzers. Verification of the calibration 300 ng/mL shall be accomplished with a drug free control and open controls at target concentrations of 50-75% and 150-200% of the calibrator/cutoff. An acceptable verification will have analytical readings for the drug free < 50-75% control < cutoff (calibrator) < 150-200% control. Open and blind quality control urine shall be distributed throughout a test batch and shall make up a minimum of 5% of the number of total specimens.
 

3.	PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS.

3.1.	When calibrated at 300 ng/mL, the reagent shall be capable of identifying specimens as positive for hydrocodone, hydromorphone, codeine, and morphine when present individually or in combination in human urine at concentrations equal to or greater than 300 ng/mL as determined by the current immunoassay and gas chromatography/ mass spectrometry (GC/MS) or liquid chromatography/ tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) procedures utilized in the military laboratories.

3.2.	The reagent shall be capable of identifying specimens as negative for hydrocodone, hydromorphone, codeine and morphine when present individually or in combination in human urine at concentrations below 300 ng/mL as determined by the current immunoassay and GC/MS or LC/MS/MS procedures utilized in the military laboratories.

3.3.	The reagent performance, as evaluated through the performance of controls, shall be stable over the course of the day and shall not require re-calibration within an eight hour period.

3.4.	The reagent shall display precision and accuracy both within and between batches for concentrations ranging between 50-200% of the calibrator concentration.

3.5.	The reagent shall produce non-overlapping ranges for samples analyzed at 0%, 50%, 100%, 150%, and 200% of the calibrator concentration.

3.6.	Enhancing factors include linearity from 0% to 200% of the calibrator concentration, improved predictive rates, increased specificity, and ease of preparation.

4.	QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM OF THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS SHALLPOSSESS CURRENT ISO-9000 SERIES CERTIFICATION OR INCLUDE DOCUMENTATION OF THE FOLLOWING ELEMENTS:

4.1.	Chemicals and Reagents

4.1.1.	Quality and authenticity. All materials used in the preparation of reagents shall be verified as to authenticity and purity. Methods may include, but are not limited to, the determination of melting points, GC/MS, LC-MS/MS Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR), and spectrophotometric measurements.

4.1.2.	Stability. The kit and each kit component shall be shown to be stable and at the correct concentration over the period of use of the kit. Components that are homogeneous solutions shall not deteriorate throughout the period of use of the kit (from date of preparation to date of expiration).

4.2.	Manufacturer’s Equipment.

4.2.1.	Preventive maintenance. Routine preventive maintenance procedures, periodic calibration, and any unscheduled maintenance shall be fully documented and in accordance with recommendations of the manufacturer of the equipment.

4.2.2.	Calibration and operational checks. All instruments that are used to check a physical parameter of a solution or material shall be calibrated and have documentation available to demonstrate that all required operational checks have been completed. This includes pH meters, spectrometers, micropipettes, etc.

4.2.3.	Temperature checks. Water baths, refrigerators, freezers, and other equipment that is intended to maintain a given temperature shall be periodically validated for accuracy and routinely verified for correctsettings.

4.2.4.	Glassware and other reusable laboratory supplies. Appropriate procedures for cleaning and inspecting glassware and other reusable materials shall be established and compliance documented.
 

4.3.	Antibody Drug Molecule.

4.3.1.	Authenticity. The prepared antibody drug molecule shall be verified to be authentic and its purity established.

4.3.2.	Stability. The antibody drug shall be documented to be stable to the expiration date and the immunoassay shall meet all contract specifications to the end of expiration date (which is a minimum of 180 days from date of delivery to the drug testing laboratory).

4.4.	Antibody specificity.

4.4.1	Characteristics. Antibody specificity shall be verified for each lot and the specificity re-evaluated at routine intervals to ensure uniformity and quality of preparations. The reagent shall provide performance characteristics in terms of sensitivity and specificity for detection of hydrocodone, hydromorphone, codeine, and morphine in urine. Chemical compounds that may reasonably be found in urine resulting from prescription or non-prescription drug use shall be tested to characterize antibody specificity. Specificity testing shall include biochemical materials produced normally in the human body.

4.5.	Immunoassays.

4.5.1.	Technical performance. Performance of each lot of kits shall be verified. The verification shall establish, as a minimum, the appropriate response to the target molecules and that all other parameters as specified in the contract are met.

4.5.2.	Stability. The performance parameters involved in the testing procedures shall be verified and documented to be consistent throughout the shelf life of the kit.

4.5.3.	Manufacturer's production manual. Procedures and criteria required to validate all components (and materials) employed during the manufacture of the reagents in the test kits and the operation of the completed kit over the entire period of shelf-life of the kit shall be described in detail. All steps of each quality control procedure shall be described thoroughly.

4.5.4.	Records. The production and quality assurance records generated by each procedure performed above shall be maintained in a systematic fashion to permit the verification of completion of all production parameters and shall be available for inspection during the term of the contract.

4.5.5.	Corrective action. When a specified quality control parameter is found to be out of limits, the action taken to ensure correction for existing kits (i.e., notification) shall be documented and action taken to ensure that thedeficiency does not reoccur and all records shall be retained. The Contracting Officer shall be notified within 2 working days of any deficiencies in existing kits and of all corrective actions for consideration, i.e., delivery of replacement kits at no cost to the Government. The FDA shall be notified according to its regulations.

4.5.6.	Lot numbers. Lot numbers shall be used to identify reagent and other preparations to allow tracking of all immunoassay components. The procedures used to assign unique lot numbers for each solution or reagent shall be described. A single lot number for a kit shall suffice if all materials used in that lot number can be tracked to identify the materials and procedures used in the preparation of that kit.

5.	PACKAGING AND MARKING

5.1.	THERMAL PROTECTION FOR BIOLOGIC REAGENTS

5.1.1. The contractor will ship biologic reagent items used in drug assays in insulated thermal containers to ensure protection of the reagents against thermal (Heat/Cold) damage which would affect reagent performance contained in the Statement of Work of this contract.
 


5.2.	MARKING OF SHIPMENTS (COMMERCIALLY PACKAGED ITEMS)

5.2.1. Marking shall be in accordance with ASTM D 3951 88, "Standard Practice for Commercial Packaging."
(a) Additional markings are stated below: Contract Number:
Government Delivery Order Number:

5.3.	DETERIORATIVE MATERIAL MARKING

5.3.1.	The contractor will include as part of the marking, the following information:

(a)	Expiration date.

(b)	Required storage conditions for each kit component.

(c)	Type I or Type II shelf life date as specified in MIL-STD-129 for each unit of material, issue, package, intermediate container and exterior shipping container.
